Project Title
=============
Soft robots and fuzzy computation: Towards a more intelligent and brilliant automation.

Project Summaries
(a)Please provide a one-paragraph summary of your project that can be understood by a broad scientific review panel
================================================================================================================

Over the past half century, robots have seen a wide adoption in society. In particular, we have witnessed their adoption in automations tasks in business value chains, which has yielded our current post-industrial economic boom. Rigid robots and mechanisms as well as explicit formulation of computational instructions to computers have played a leading role in this economic transformation. Key characteristics of rigid mechanisms and robots include their low transportable loads, and large flexure torques. These inherent properties affect their positioning accuracy. Therefore, to minimize positioning accuracy e.g. robot error magnification from shoulder out to end-effector, their joints are typically stiffened during the manufacturing process. However, this stiffening contributes to a high load-to-weight ratio that complicates the overall actuation mechanism -- hindering their use in sophisticated and delicate manipulation tasks.  In contrast, soft robots exhibit distributed deformation in their configuration space as well as bending and twisting capabilities, whilst possessing hyper-redundancy and flexible manipulation capabilities in delicate workspaces. The minimal resistance of soft matter to applied strain, minimal load-to-weight ratio, compliance and safety guarantees make them choice actuators in human-robot automation domains. Soft robots, composed of soft materials, can be difficult to model and control, however. My goal is to harness the natural geometry soft devices, taking inspiration cues from organisms that exist in nature, and exploiting their intrinsic morphological computation properties so as to yield simplified control laws and human-friendly manipulation systems. I want to continue providing robust models (via analytic and AI methods) as well as controllers for soft robots that serve as better alternatives to current rigid manipulation technologies in medicine and industrial automation.  I am interested in designing robust models, robust adaptive controllers, and software frameworks that make it easier (for engineers, chemists, and biologists alike) to create, verify and validate soft continuum manipulators as designers originally envisioned. 
Since the start of the information age, in the field of numerical computation, we have formalized reasoning about computational executions (often dubbed software 1.0) with clearly defined, and explicit instructions that make programming software completely deterministic. As such, automating simple tasks requires learning a haystack of programming languages and formalisms in order to formalize our thought process for silicon chips and processors. While this has been good for task-specific problems, it falls short of the goals of artificial intelligence, which is to have an intelligent machine that can abstractly reason about computing just the way humans do. This is beneficial because it would have the reasoning capacity to anticipate problems, correct errors on the fly and make systems robust to failure. Deduction explicates, and induction evaluates. Because of their superb universal approximation properties, neural networks are unreasonably efficient at drawing deductions from given examples. Trained neural network models, in turn, have an extraordinary ability at drawing inductions from real-time evaluations.  I am envisioning a future where computation is carried out as abstractly as humans think with the use of artificial and deep neural networks. By leveraging the abundant availability of open source software, we can teach machines the art of making inductions about calculations and computations from these stacks of examples. Programming computers would then be no more than using trained deep neural network models on real-world evaluation samples.   


(b) Please provide a one-paragraph summary of your project that can be understood by a non-scientific audience
==============================================================================================================


Humans are intelligent and not brilliant. Robots are brilliant and lack intelligence. As society becomes more industrialized, the need for automation of traditional mechanical tasks in non-traditional automation domains are increasingly becoming apparent to engineers and scientists alike. While humans excel at reasoning while executing everyday mechanical tasks (such as pick and place, packaging of delicate items off machine assembly lines, assisting the disabled in everyday living), robots do not since they are generally preprogrammed in advance of tasks to be executed. Our human motor skills held together by millions of years of improvising on executing tasks repeatedly, still fail us when we are required to carry out at precise objects manipulation, or fast/large computation. Robots and mechanisms, on the other hand, execute pre-programmed tasks brilliantly, by taking advantage of their efficient computational power and stiff mechanical properties. However, they lack the reasoning behind such expert-driven executions that when the programs have errors, the execution fails catastrophically. This has been known to cause industrial fatalities and autonomous car crashes etc. Humans are intelligent and not brilliant. Robots are brilliant and lack intelligence. Over the chasm that yawns between the start of original life and our current individual and collective intelligence as society, our modern brilliant robots need to be endowed with the intelligence that have enabled human beings to become skillful at executing everyday tasks across industries, living homes, and medical facilities.  The question then is how do we transfer human-level intelligence to robots such that procedural reasoning mechanical tasks that are executed by humans with intelligent efforts can be carried out by robots that inherently possess fast compute but lack intelligence? My answer is to equip robots and mechanisms with human-level reasoning and intelligence, which may for example include baking mechanical constraints into soft actuators, patterned after organisms that execute intelligent grasp, pick, locomotion and other manipulation tasks, found in nature. In the field of rigid robotics, for example, this could involve rethinking our way of designing mechanical links and joints and adopting modern technology from the field of material science and engineering or taking cues from organisms in nature that intelligently carry out mechanical operations. In order to improvise on compute and reason, I propose using artificial neural networks as computational devices that formalize program execution since they are powerful at deduction from data and hence induction during real-time programing tasks. I am on a lifelong quest of designing soft robots and compute algorithms that are endowed with bio-inspired intelligence. This would make assistive robots more engaging, augmented reality a lot more intelligent, and traditional consumer robots more available to a wider community of consumers, industries, medical hospitals and educational institutions alike.


What most appeals to you about being a Radcliffe Fellow? (max. 300 words)
=========================================================================

I consider myself an interdisciplinary researcher, who combines the elegance of control theory, machine learning, and largely computer science with the practical impact of robotics and engineering. No institution provides unparalleled match for my interdisciplinary research inquiry like Radcliffe. Given that my research is a multifaceted one, Radcliffe provides an opportunity for me to engage with creative researchers in the engineering and social sciences, so that I may attain knowledge and wisdom while pursuing my intellectual and creative robots research inquiry. Being surrounded by other fellows and researchers who are more accomplished than I am, it will stimulate my creative thinking and activities positively, bringing a rapid achievement of my short-and medium-term research goals while shunning the glamour and fame that accompanies my prospective success. I am also attracted by the location of the school. Based in Cambridge, being a Radcliffe fellow would provide an easy means of engaging with other faculties and researchers at other Greater Boston institutions as well as the robotics startup scene in the area. 


What would a successful year at Radcliffe look like for you? (max. 300 words)
=============================================================================


I envision my time at Radcliffe as an opportunity to engage fellow researchers, gaining new insight on solving difficult automation problems, and broadening my understanding of the problems that are important to the engineering science research community. From the rich exchange of ideas with fellows and other faculty with similar research interests, I hope to gain bleeding-edge skills for deconstructing difficult research problems; this will equip me with greater discipline capacity as I continue to hone well-rounded automation research skills. Stimulating a rapid growth in my career path, I will be equipped for bigger automation research responsibilities that positively impact on society. My contributions to the larger research community will thus become more invaluable and impactful -- improving the quality of the research ecosystem thereby.


Is there anything else you would like the selection committee to know? (Optional)
=================================================================================

N/A

