> Describe how you are involved with ROS and the robotics community and what you
hope to get out of attending ROSCon. *

> Please limit your response to 500 words.

I spend my PhD research automating motion alignment systems in radiotherapy treatment of malignant cancers of the head and neck region. The novelty of my work includes the design and use of soft robots with morphological computation properties to dynamically adjust patient motion along desired degrees of freedom during cancer radiotherapy treatment. I have found ROS to be a middleware that helps me get more work done efficiently: whether I am integrating multiple hardware, designing synchronized, reliable robot controller software, needing special unix system calls to assure the security of exchanged data, or interfacing a deep vision model to a robot system, ROS is the middleware of choice that helps me get more work done in a fast and cheap manner. I love its capacity for distributed computation on multiple threads/processes, its well-tested robot algorithm libraries, and its robust mechanisms for managing, troubleshooting, and visualizing workflow. I am an active participant on the answers.ros.org forum where I answer forum questions -- improving the quality of the ROS ecosystem -- and help users to clarify documentation questions, as well as help debug bugs in users' codes as I see fit. I also follow developments within the core ROS community of developers on the ros email lists at discourse.ros.org.

I believe open sourcing one's codes is the key to advancing the field of robotics -- pushing the research envelope through quick and reproducible research. Open-sourcing one's code spurs force multipliers that help get more work done faster and cheaper. OSRF understands these fundamental principles and it maintains a vanguard of neat robot software that have proven very useful to robotics practitioners everywhere -- academe and industry practitioners alike. I passionately share OSRF's philosophy on open-software for robotics and I actively post codes of my research on git. I also contribute to open-sourced ros codes online. Among the select contributions I have made include the crazyswarm ros wrapper (from USC ACT Lab), pcl, the kinect2 ros wrapper, and my farnn, ral, and ensenso open-sourced projects etc.

I am applying for this scholarship because of the opportunity to learn new ros tools and libraries as well as refresh my knowledge of the ones I already know. Attending this conference will be a great opportunity for me to learn the cutting/bleeding-edge ROS tools from the greatest minds in robotics on the planet. I believe my attendance will create a rich exchange of ideas, widening my horizon as I gain better insight from technical talks and tutorials. Gaining in-depth insight, I will be equipped with greater discipline knowledge as I continue to hone well-rounded skills for a future career; this will stimulate rapid growth in my career path, helping me assume bigger responsibilities in automation projects. As I acquire new skills, cascaded on existing skills, I will be better equipped at solving more complex projects being tackled by the research community. My contributions to the larger robotics community will only become more invaluable and more impactful, thus improving the ROS ecosystem and functionality along the way.
