Hi there! I am a (Senior) Researcher in the MSR NYC Reinforcement Learning group. In my day-to-day work, I press towards the mark of merging the scientific elegance of machine learning and control theory with the practical impact of robotics.

After a Masters’ degree in Control Systems at the University of Sheffield, I got my doctorate in Electrical Engineering at The University of Texas at Dallas in 2019. My two full years there involved mechanism design of soft robots and control with linear and adaptive control laws. I moonlighted in optimal control later on, proposing a minimax iterative dyamic game framework for informed sensitivity of deep policies and imbueing robustness into overparameterized deep policies. In the latter half of my PhD, I worked extensively with my co-advisor’s group — Steve Jiang  — at UT Southwestern Medical Center, where I helped set up the reinforcement learning tools for our photon-based treatment planning problems in radiation therapy (this would later form part of my thesis).

During my PhD, I managed to squeeze in two internships: (i) as a mechatronics intern at Amazon Robotics LLC first with Andy Stubbs (Amazon Robotics’ Hardware Manager) and later on with Tye Brady (Amazon Robotics’ Chief Technologist) — both internships were domiciled in the Advanced Robotics Lab; and (ii) as a robot learning research intern at Japan’s Tech unicorn: Preferred Networks,  Tokyo. As a mechatronics intern, I worked on integrating high-end machine vision sensors with the pick and place anthropomorphic robots stationed on the conveyor belts at Amazon Fulfillment centers. With Tye, I would work on a voice-based SLAM project on a mobile (Pioneer) robot equipped with the Hokuyo Laser for navigation.

I was recently a postdoc at the Perelman School of Medicine (PSOM) at The University of Pennsylvania. From 2019 through the summer of 2021, I worked on the control and optimization aspects of the immobilization problem in cancer radiotherapy, both on our Stewart-Gough 6-6 parallel robot platform, and our soft parallel robot mechanism. For the soft robot project, I was the mechanism design lead and proponent of the nonlinear elastic deformation model, as well as head grasp control framework for real-time patients’ head motion correction with applications towards stereo-tactic radiosurgery, and in emerging magnetic resonance-linear accelerator photon-based cancer therapy.

Since joining MSR in 2021, and informed by the safety-critical aspects of high-dimensional control and system identification especially in life-critical  medical robotics automation tasks — my research thrusts now revolve around safety-critical learning and control in (possibly constrained) complex systems — with (optimality/stability/robustness/convergence) guarantees.

I am active in the control, AI, and robotics research community, with services refereeing high-impact  journals/archived publication venues including The International Federation of Automatic Control — Automatica and World Congress alike, CDC, ICML, ACC, Neurips, IROS, ICRA, ICLR, RA-Letters, refereeing NatGeo AI for Species Discovery grants and most recently, serving as Associate Editor at ICRA.

I do consider myself an Engineer first, and then a Researcher (and definitely not a single-issue researcher) — real-world engineering problems inform my research. I always love discussing new ideas and if you look around on my personal website (see bottom left of this page) and find something interesting that you would like to discuss, please do not hesitate to send me an email.